MY FIRST GUEST IS A
FORMER MAYOR OF NEWARK, CURRENT
U.S. SENATOR, AND A DEMOCRATIC
CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT OF THESE
UNITED STATES.
PLEASE WELCOME BACK TO "THE LATE
SHOW," SENATOR COREY BOOKER.
♪ ♪ ♪
( APPLAUSE )
>> I LOVE THAT TUNE.
>> Stephen: THAT'S FOR YOU.
>> I LOVE THE JERSEY SEAL ON THE
CEILING.
>> Stephen: WE JUST WANTED TO
MAKE YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE.
>> I'M VERY GRATEFUL FOR THAT.
>> Stephen: WELCOME BACK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stephen: I HAVE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY, THE PLEASURE OF
INTERVIEWING YOU MANY TIMES
BETWEEN THE OLD SHOW AND THE NEW
SHOW THIS YEAR BUT THIS IS THE
FIRST TIME I HAVE SPOKEN TO AS
AN ANNOUNCED CANDIDATE FOR
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
CONGRATULATIONS ON MAKING THAT
LEAP.
IT MUST BE-- I CALLED IT, BY THE
WAY.
YOU REMEMBER THAT I CALLED IT.
>> I THINK YOU KNEW BEFORE I
DID.
AND MY MOM DID, WHICH IS
PROBABLY ONE OF THE MORE
IMPORTANT HELPERS IN MY LIFE, IN
TERMS OF BIG DECISIONS.
>> Stephen: I ACTUALLY HAVE A
CLIP HERE OF ME CALLING IF YOU
WANT TO GO TO THAT, JIM.
ARE YOU RUNNING IN 2020?
>> I AM --
>> Stephen: LET ME-- ACTUALLY
LET ME LET YOU OFF THE HOOK.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Stephen: I WILL LET YOU OFF
THE HOOK AND YOU KNOW THAT YOU
ARE RUNNING IN 2020.
>> UHM--
>> Stephen: THIS IS-- TELL ME
ABOUT THE MOMENT OF THE
DECISION.
BECAUSE A LOT OF THOUGHT GOES
INTO THIS.
WHAT IS THAT MOMENT OF DECISION
LIKE WHEN YOU SAY, "I'M GOING TO
MAKE THE LEAP?
I'M GOING TO DO IT."
>> IT'S A HARD DECISION.
PEOPLE THINK IT'S INEVITABLE AND
EASY AND WE HAVE QUITE A FEW
CANDIDATES RUNNING THIS TIME AND
I GIVE THEM CREDIT BECAUSE TO
PUT YOURSELF THERE FOR A
GRUELING YEAR, TWO-YEAR JOURNEY.
AS SOON AS I STARTED LOOKING AT
MY HESITATIONS AND REASONS I WAS
USING, THEY WERE MORE COMING
FROM FEAR THAN FAITH.
AND I'M A BIG BELIEVER THAT YOU
SHOULD LIVE LIFE WITH COURAGE
AND PURSUE YOUR DREAMS AND
ASPIRATIONS.
AND I REALIZED MY DREAMS FOR
THIS COUNTRY WERE FAR BIGGER
THAN THE FEARS I HAD ABOUT
MYSELF.
AND I COME FROM A HISTORY-- WE
BOTH COME FROM A HISTORY WHERE
PEOPLE PUT IT ALL ON THE LINE
FOR THIS NATION, AND WHY SHOULD
I WORRY ABOUT MY FEARS.
THOSE ARE SMALL.
THE AMBITIONS I HAVE FOR THE
UNITED STATES ARE LARGE AND AND
GOOD WILLING GET A CHANCE TO
SHOW SOME LEADERSHIP DURING THIS
CAMPAIGN TRAIL, AS WELL AS IN
THE END.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: YOU PUT OUT A
BEAUTIFUL VIDEO WHEN YOU FIRST
LAUNCHED-- YOU ANNOUNCED YOUR
CAMPAIGN, YOU FIRST LAUNCHED.
AND IT'S VERY HOPEFUL.
YOU TALK A LOT ABOUT LOVE.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: LOVE OF YOUR
COUNTRY, LOVE OF YOUR FELLOW MAN
PUP SAID VERY SPECIFICALLY YOU
DON'T HAVE HATE IN YOUR HEART.
YOU EVEN SAID YOU LOVE DONALD
TRUMP.
>> WELL, MY MOM TAUGHT SUNDAY
SCHOOL, AND SHE TAUGHT ME LOVE
YOUR NEIGHBOR, NO EXCEPTION
EXRKZ NEVER LET SOMEONE PULL YOU
SO LOW YOU HATE THEM.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO LET DONALD
TRUMP CONTORT MY SOUL.
I BELIEVE IN THIS ELECTION, MORE
THAN EVER, WE NEED A'S VIVAL OF
GRACE IN THIS COUNTRY.
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING IN OUR
POLITICS, WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
OUR POLITICS RIGHT NOW IS
UNDERMINING OUR ABILITY TO GET
BIG THINGS DONE.
WE HAVE PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE THE
FORCES TEARING US APART ARE
STRONGER THAN THE FORCES BINDING
US TOGETHER.
I THINK PATRIOTISM MEANS LOVE OF
COUNTRY.
YOU CAN'T LOVE YOUR COUNTRY
UNLESS YOU LOVE YOUR FELLOW
COUNTRYMEN AND WOMEN.
NOW, WE DON'T ALWAYS HAVE TO
AGREE.
WE MAY-- WE DON'T ALWAYS HAVE TO
WE MAY HAVE DAYS WHERE WE DON'T
LIKE EACH OTHER, BUT WE HAVE
COME TO THE POINT IN AMERICA
WHERE THE BIGGEST ASPIRATION IS
TOLERANCE.
THE REALITY IS WHAT LOVE SAYS IS
THAT YOU AND I SHARE A COMMON
DESTINY, THAT WE NEED EACH
OTHER.
THAT IF YOUR KIDS DON'T GO TO A
GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL OR HAVE
HEALTH CARE, THEN MY KIDS ARE
THE LESSER FOR IT.
WE ARE A NATION THAT WAS
FOUNDED-- WRITTEN, LITERALLY, BY
OUR IMPERFECT GENIUSES WHO WROTE
THIS COUNTRY.
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT A THEOCRACY.
WE'RE NOT ALL OF THE SAME RACE.
WE FOUNDED OUR NATION ON IDEALS,
AND OUR FOUNDERS NEW EXWOOU THAT
WAS A TOUGH WAY TO FOUND A
COUNTRY.
AS BIG AS THESE IDEALS ARE, WE
HAVE TO HAVE HAVE A CONNECTION
TO EACH OTHER.
THAT'S WITH THE DECLARATION SAYS
AT THE END IF WE'RE GOING TO
MAKE THIS NATION WORK WE MUST
MUTUAL LEPLEDGE, PLEDGE TO EACH
OTHER, OUR ARMS AND OUR
FORTUNES.
YOU TURN ON TV OR YOU WATCH OUR
POLITICS TRASH TALKING, TWITTER
TROLLING, WHERE IS THE SACRED
MORE THAN NRN THAT?
MOST AMERICANS, DEMOCRAT OR
REPUBLICAN, BELIEVE THAT
EVERYBODY SHOULD HAVE ACCESS TO
HEALTH CARE.
MOST AMERICANS -- DEMOCRAT AND
REPUBLICAN-- BELIEVE KIDS SHOULD
HAVE GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
WE HAVE SO MUCH COMMON GROUND,
AND SO MUCH COMMON PAIN, BUT
WE'VE LOST A SENSE OF COMMON
PURPOSE TO SEIZE THAT COMMON
GROUND AND DEAL WITH THAT COMMON
PAIN.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: YOU--
>> SO YOU MAY-- I MAY LOVE THE
PEOPLE, BUT I DON'T WANT DONALD
TRUMP TO BE MY PRESIDENT.
I'M GOING TO WORK VERY HARD TO
MAKE SURE HE'S OUT OF THE
OFFICE.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE OF THE
OTHER PEOPLE YOU LOVE.
>> IN THE NAME OF LOVE.
>> Stephen: WHAT ABOUT THE
OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO
GET THE NOMINATION FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
YOU'VE GOT A LOT OF FRIENDS, A
LOT OF COLLEAGUES --
>> ARE YOU MAD I CANNOT ANNOUNCE
ON THIS SHOW.
I HAVE SEEN OTHERS, MY DEAR
FRIEND KIRSTEN JILLEN BRAND.
KIRSTEN IS LIKE A SISTER TO ME
AND THERE WILL BE SIBLING
RIVALRY.
>> Stephen: LET'S HEAR IT.
LET'S HEAR WHY YOU'RE A BETTER
CHOICE THAN KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND,
WHY ARE YOU A BETTER CHANCE THAN
THE 54 OTHER PEOPLE RUNNING.
THERE HAS TO BE A REASON WHY
YOUR MESSAGE IS BETTER THAN THE
OTHER PEOPLE AND WHAT IS IT?
>> THE 2020 RACE STANDS FOR,
THAT'S HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE
RUNNING, 2,020 PEOPLE.
LOOK, I HAVE SPENT MY LIFE
RUNNING AT THE MOST DIFFICULT
PROBLEMS THIS COUNTRY HAD, FROM
THE TIME I MOVED INTO AN INNER
CITY LOW-INCOME NEIGHBORHOOD,
THEY STILL LIVE IN, TAKING ON
BATTLES PEOPLE STAYED COULDN'T
BE DONE.
I REMEMBER PEOPLE LITERALLY
LAUGH AT ME AS I WOULD GO AROUND
AS THE MAYOR OF THE CITY OF NEW
YORK TALKING ABOUT THE GREATNESS
OF NEWARK AND NOW OUR CITY IS
GOING THROUGH THE BIGGEST
ECONOMIC REVIVAL SINCE 1960.
WHEN I GOT TO WASHINGTON, PEOPLE
WERE CYNICAL.
THEY TOLD ME WE COULDN'T MAKE
BIG CHANGE.
AND ONE OF MY BIGGEST ISSUES FOR
GOING TO WASHINGTON WAS JUSTICE,
REFORMING OUR BROKEN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
I GOT DOWN TO THE SENATE FLOOR,
AND THE EVENTUAL CHAIRMAN OF THE
JUDICIALLY COMMITTEE WAS
SPEAKING AGAINST WHAT I WANTED
TO DO, WHICH WAS LOWERING
SENTENCES AND ENDING MANDATORY
MIN MINIMUMS.
I SAT DOWN WITH HIM AND WE PUT
TOGETHER A PIECE OF LEGISLATION
THAT IS NOW THE LAW OF THE LAND.
>> Stephen: THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE REFORM ACT THAT WAS
SIGNED BY THE PRESIDENT ABOUT A
MONTH AGO?
>> YES.
IT'S SOMETHING I WORKED FIVE
YEARS ON, AND WE GOT IT DONE
WITH A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT AND
A SO-CALLED DIVIDED CONGRESS.
( APPLAUSE )
AND SO --
>> Stephen: THE PRESIDENT
TAKES A LOT OF CREDIT FOR THAT.
THE PRESIDENT TAKES A LOT OF
CREDIT FOR THAT CRIMINAL JUSTICE
REFORM.
COULD IT HAVE GOTTEN DONE WITH A
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT IN THERE OR
WOULD THE REPUBLICANS NOT HAVE
COME ALONG AT ALL UNLESS A
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT GOT CREDIT
FOR IT.
>> THE QUESTION OF COULD IT HAVE
GOTTEN DONE-- AMERICAN HISTORY
IS THE PERPETUAL TESTIMONY TO
THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE
IMPOSSIBLE.
WE CAN GET ANYTHING DONE WE WANT
TO.
WE'VE PROVEN THAT.
BUT SOMEHOW WE'VE HAD-- OUR
DREAMS HAVE GOTTEN A LOT SMALLER
IN TERMS OF OF WHAT WE'RE
CAPABLE OF.
WE SHOULD BE A COUNTRY WHERE
HEALTH CARE IS A RIGHT.
WHERE OUR SCHOOLS AND THE
DETERMINATION OF A KID'S SUCCESS
DOESN'T DETERMINE WHAT ZIP CODE
YOU LIVE IN, BUT EVERY CHILD HAS
GREAT SCHOOLS.
THESE ARE THINGS WE SHOULD BE
DREAMING BIG ABOUT AGAIN.
AND IF WE'RE LETTING OUR NATION,
LETTINGLY OUR POLITICS SOMEHOW
UNDERMINE OUR ABILITY AND FAITH
IN EACH OTHER OTHER THEN OUR
POLITICS IS SAVAGELY BROKEN AND
NEEDS TO BE FIXED.
THAT'S WHY I'M RUNNING FOR
PROFIT UNITED STATES.
BECAUSE I BELIEVE IN US.
I BELIEVE IN WHAT WE CAN ACHIEVE
TOGETHER AND I WANT TO START
EXPANDING PEOPLE'S VISION FOR
WHAT'S POSSIBLE IN OUR COUNTRY
AGAIN.
>> Stephen: WE HAVE TO TAKE A
COMMERCIAL BREAK.
PLEASE DON'T GO ANYWHERE.
WE'LL BE BACK WITH MORE SENATOR
CORY BOOKER.
HE'S RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT,
EVERYBODY.